Hello and welcome back to the course on deep learning today we're talking about a relay which is rectified
in your units and this is an additional step.
On top of our convolution step.
So it's not a separate big step it's a small step in step one be basically.
And what is going on here.
Well we have our input image we have all convolutional there which we've discussed.
And then on top of that we're going to apply.
Wait for it.
Our favorite rectifier function and you're familiar with the rectifier function from the previous section
on artificial neural networks and in our So sometimes authors or instructors separates the convolution
and direct fire as two separate steps in our examples which is going to consider them the just one big
step for second motion then the rectifier.
And the reason why we're applying the rectifier is because we want to increase non-linearity in our
image or in our network in our commercial neural network and rectifier acts as that filter or access
that function which breaks up in you arity.
And the reason why we want to increase nonlinearity in our network is because images themselves are
highly non-linear especially if you're recognizing different objects next to each other or just on background
and stuff like that.
The image is going to have lots of Nandikar elements and the transition between pixels adjacent pixels
is often would be non-linear.
That's you know because as borders is different colors is different.
There's different elements in your images and but at the same time when we're applying mathematical
operations such as convolution you know and to running this feature detection to create our feature
maps we risk that we might create something linear and therefore we need to break up the narrative.
So let's have a look at an example here is a image and original image.
Now when we apply a feature detection detector to this image we get something like this.
So you can see here that black is negative white is positive values Well when you apply a feature detector
to a like a proper image which has not just zeros and ones but has lots of different values and you
apply as we saw previously featured text that can have negative values in themselves.
Sometimes you'll get negative values and here are there black ones are negative white ones are positive.
And what a rectified linear unit function does is it removes all the black rights in anything below
zero it turns into zero.
And so from this it turns into this right.
And so it's it's pretty hard to see what exactly is the benefit in terms of in terms of breaking up
already.
I'll try to explain.
I'll try to show an example on this image but at the end of the day it's this is a very mathematical
concept and would have to go into a lot of math to really explain what is going on.
But let's let's try let's have a look.
So for instance let's look at this.
This building here right.
So this is a building on its own.
Then you can see this shadow this black part this shadow over here.
Well you see that it's white the reflection of the light and then it's a gray and then it gets darker
and then it gets darker again.
Right.
So and when we take it out we take out that black spot.
So think of it in terms of linearity right so it looks like when you go from white to gray the next
step would be black.
Right the next step would be black.
It's a linear progression from bright to dark.
And therefore this is kind of like a linear situation.
When you take out the black you break up the charity.
Let's try another one.
Let's have a look here.
And at the same time it's still that same building right.
It's not it's not like you or you're like it's not like you're blending two buildings into each other
but that is secondary.
The main point is breaking up the linearity.
So let's have a look here.
Same thing.
So you see white gray black gray white.
And when you break it up you don't have that anymore right.
You don't have that progression the gradual progression that you just have like an abrupt change.
And that helps introduce non-linearity into your image.
So it's a very rough explanation very kind of like on the on the fingers explanation rather than technical.
But hopefully it kind of helps you understand a bit better what we're talking about here.
So here again you can see white gray is a better example even to bright darker darker darker darker
darker darker.
So this part looks like it's thinner than you break it up like that again so this is a very rough explanation.
It's not absolutely perfect but at least it gives you some idea of what's going on.
But if you'd like to learn more there's a good paper as always there's always a paper.
This one is by CCJ corps from the University of California and it's called Understanding convolutional
neural networks who have a mathematical model.
And basically they're He answers to questions and you need to just look at the first one.
And the question is why not a nonlinear activation function is essential at the filter output of all
intermediate layers.
So that kind of explains it a bit more detail both in terms of intuition and mostly in terms of mathematics.
So that's an interesting paper where you can get some more additional information on this topic.
And if you really want to dig in and explore some some cool stuff here.
Then there's another paper that you might be interested in.
It's called delving deeper into rectifier surpassing human Lebon level performance on image and that
classification.
And here the author is coming here and others from Microsoft Research they propose a different type
of rectified leaner unit function.
They propose the parametric rectified function which you see here on the right and they argue that it
delivers better results without sacrificing performance.
So interesting read if you'd like to get a bit more into this topic.
And that's all for today.
Really you layer is pretty simple so for justing just applying the rectifier function and I look forward
to seeing you next time.
Until then enjoy deep learning.